# Effects of SNP ascertainment on population structure inferences

Supplemental Material (scripts) of the manuscript,

"Effects of SNP ascertainment on population structure inferences"
by Dokan K., S. Kawamura and KM. Teshima. (submit)

## Requirements

Scripts were developed under the following environment.

Python>=3.7  
Libraries
  - numpy 1.15.4
  - pandas 0.23.4

Other softwares
  - ms (Hudson RR. Bioinformatics 2002. [software page](http://home.uchicago.edu/rhudson1/source/mksamples.html))
  - EIGENSTRAT in EIGENSOFT package, v7.2.1 (Price et al. Nat Genet. 2006, Patterson et al. PLoS Genet. 2006. [software page](https://www.hsph.harvard.edu/alkes-price/software/))

For details about the installation method and usage of these software, please refer to the original software pages and manuals therein.

## Contents

SNP data were generated by performing *ms* and processed with in-house scripts and EIGENSTRAT. Scripts used in the manuscripts are available in the following folders:

  - two-populations/
    - README file (README.md)
    - ms command line (2pop_ms_commands.txt)
    - Scripts to simulate ascertainment schemes under two-population model (.py files)
    - These scripts were used to generate Figure 2, 3 and S1.
  - three-populations/
      - README file (README.md)
      - ms command line (3pop_ms_commands.txt)
      - Scripts to simulate ascertainment schemes under three-population model (.py files)
      - These scripts were used to generate Figure 4, S2, S3 and S4.
  - pca/
      - README file (README.md)
      - ms command line (pca_ms_commands.txt)
      - Scripts to simulate ascertainment schemes under three-population model (.py files)
      - These scripts were used to generate Figure 5.
